[Music]
good morning to you
welcome to breakfast with dan walker and
louise minchin the headline is for you
at six o'clock this morning another five
million people are to be invited for
their covid vaccine the over 70s and the
clinically extremely
vulnerable will be included in a major
expansion of england's vaccination
rollout
vaccines will start to be delivered at
another 10 large centers from today
we're live at one of them saint helen's
rugby league ground ministers come under
pressure to extend the 20 pound a week
uplifting universal credit
as labour forces a commons vote on the
issue
the scheme has cost taxpayers six
billion pounds this year but campaigners
and charities say it is a lifeline for
those
on the lowest incomes but a decision on
whether to extend it may not come
before the budget in march
travellers coming to the uk must now
test negative for covert 19
and self-isolate for 10 days on arrival
good morning in sport england wrap up
victory in the opening test against sri
lanka and it's a frustrating night for
manchester united and liverpool
who played a goalless draw despite
missed chances united
stay top of the table and snow may
feature in the forecast again later this
week but before we get there lots of
heavy rain and a real risk of flooding
over the next few days
i'll take you through the full forecast
here on breakfast
[Music]
good morning it's monday it's the 18th
of january and millions of people in
england age 70 and over and those with
medical conditions which make them
extremely vulnerable to coronavirus will
be invited for
vaccination from today they will be
joining more than 3.8 million people
mainly the over 80s who've already
received their first
dose it comes as 10 new vaccination hubs
open
across england our science correspondent
palib gauche
has the details right let's get going
the nhs is scaling up its immunisation
program
ten new mass vaccination centers open
today
bringing the total to 17. medical staff
have so far been giving jabs to the two
groups on top of the government's
priority list
care home residents and their carers and
to the over 80s
as well as front line health and care
workers
they remain the priority but vaccination
sites which have enough supply and the
capacity
will now be allowed to offer jabs to the
next two groups on the list
the over 70s and the clinically
extremely vulnerable
such as people who are receiving cancer
treatment or have severe respiratory
disease
the move is in line with the
government's plan to vaccinate around
15 million of those most at risk from
coronavirus by the 15th of february
it's not going to be the case that uh on
you know valentine's day or the 15th of
uh
february uh with one bound we are free
but equally i don't think that we will
be having to wait until the autumn i
think somewhere between those two
uh subject of course to this uncertainty
about new variants
of the coronavirus and it will be very
important that
we don't see those taking off in a way
that undermines
the effectiveness of vaccines some
hospitals will be open for vaccinations
24 hours a day
seven days a week on a trial basis in
the next 10 days
palab gauche bbc news
well let's speak to our reporter murray
smith who is at st
helens rugby league ground which is one
of those ten new vaccination centers
opening today
uh morning to you so how many people are
expected there today
well it's very hard to tell just how
many will turn up here today because the
people
organizing this aren't in charge of the
booking system but they're confident
that thousands of people will be through
the doors here the home of the saints
within this coming week letters will
arrive to over the weekend and it's
important to stress really
that people cannot turn up here for
their first vaccination job unless
they've been
invited to do so so this is the first
job
they will come in here they'll be
processed they'll have a little bit of
time
to speak to somebody after they have had
their injection as well it's not just
straight in and straight out and it's
important as well to say that people who
have that job here that first job
will return here in 12 weeks for that
second
shot and this is all part of this plan
to try and
increase that number of people who get
vaccinated those vulnerable groups
over 80s and now of course the over 70s
as well will be invited
so this is one of ten new vaccination
hubs
opening today it's the only one in
liverpool city region something that
the metro mayor for this area steve
rotherham fought long and hard for
all right thank you very much speech a
bit later on and we'll be there
throughout the morning
yes and also we'll be talking to the
vaccines minister at half past
seven this morning half past eight will
be joined by professor stephen powers
he's the national medical director
of nhs england and i'm sure you have
lots of questions um do start sending
them in we will
look through them and ask as many of
them as we can
he's going to be here at 8 30 this
morning all of the so-called
travel corridors into the uk were closed
at 4 o'clock this morning in a bid to
prevent the spread of new
covid variants the new measures which
will be in place until at least
mid-february mean all arrivals will need
to quarantine for up to 10 days
here's our business correspondent casey
austin
from today people coming into the uk
from anywhere must quarantine for 10
days upon arrival
if they pay for a covered test after
five days and get a negative result
they can leave self-isolation early the
rules apply to airports eurostar and
seaports
but not people traveling within the uk
or ireland or some jobs
like hauliers also from this morning the
requirement to show a negative covered
test less than 72 hours before coming to
the uk
kicks in the suspension of travel
corridors
which removed the need to quarantine
upon arrival from a list of places
was announced after new variants of
coronavirus emerged in other countries
the trade body representing airports
said it understood the reasons but that
although continuing restrictions meant
traffic was already
extremely quiet the impact would be
devastating
closing the travel corridors means that
we will see even fewer passengers and we
it dents consumer confidence for the
future so
it adds to the problems we're already
seeing the government has said it's
committed to helping
bring the travel and tourism sector back
to full strength
as soon as it is safe to do so katie
alstin bbc news
thousands of national guard troops are
patrolling washington d.c
amid fears of more violent protests from
supporters of president trump
as he prepares to hand power to joe
biden as our north america correspondent
peter bose now reports the capital
remains on high alert
[Laughter]
new images of the uprising inside the
u.s capitol
at the time of the insurrection congress
was certifying joe biden's election win
rummaging through the desks of senators
the rioters came across papers belonging
to ted cruz
one of the president's strongest
supporters he was going to sell us out
all along
objection to counting the electoral
votes of the state of arizona can i get
a photo of that wait no that's all
okay all right he's with us he's with us
since that day the us capital has been
paralyzed by the intense security
that's turned washington into a fortress
the fbi has warned that armed supporters
of president trump
could try to disrupt wednesday's
swearing-in of joe biden
and carmela harris any other year
there'd be throngs of people
packed into this area to witness the
inauguration this will be an inaugural
like no other
in large part because of kovit but we
are going to get sworn in and we're
going to do the job we were hired to do
and that means focusing for example
on getting people vaccinated
the fear of more violence has been felt
in all of america's 50 states
capital cities have been put on alert
with armed guards in position
outside government buildings over the
weekend there were some
small gatherings of demonstrators in a
handful of states
ohio texas oregon and michigan but
nothing on the scale of what happened at
the u.s capitol
nearly two weeks ago the intense
security in washington will continue
until after the inauguration and after
donald trump has left town
the surreal site of troops camping on
the marble floors of the capitol
building
another reminder that these are far from
normal times
peter bowes bbc news los angeles
now the foreign office has said the uk
is deeply concerned by the detention of
one of the kremlin's most high-profile
critics alexei navalny
he was held as he entered russia for the
first time since he was nearly killed by
the nerve agent novichok he blames
russian authorities for that attack five
months ago
the kremlin though are denying any
involvement
so richard branson's rocket company
virgin orbit has succeeded in putting
its first satellites into space
they launched on a rocket launched from
an old 747 plane in california
so richard has said he hopes eventually
to do it from newquay
in cornwall
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news